<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>16. The Cloud</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>16. The </strong><strong>Cloud</strong></h2>

<p>The Cloud can be described as a method of delivering different types of services over the internet, including software and analytics, to secure and safe data storage and network resources. Several common cloud usages include cloud storage, cloud backup and business intelligence.</p>

<p>Cloud computing also has important ramifications for law enforcement. Many cloud service providers offer free cloud storage associated with mobile telephone or computer accounts. Some of these devices are automatically set to save information from the device to The Cloud. Some of the more common cloud service providers include Google, Microsoft, Dropbox and OneDrive.</p>

<p>Data that can be backed up to The Cloud includes calendar entries, photographs, emails, contact lists, google maps and backups of web-based communication applications such as iMessage, WhatsApp, WeChat, Line and Messenger. This information can still be maintained in Cloud accounts even when the original information is wiped from the user’s phone or computer.</p>

<p>As frontline law enforcement officers you may be presented with investigative opportunities to search Cloud based accounts by virtue of a search warrant, telecommunications intercept warrant or permission granted by owner of the service.</p>

<p>There are several programs and applications that will assist you to download material from Cloud based accounts. You will need to use the same procedures to document the material you collect from the Cloud as you do with material you collect from physical storage devices.</p>


</body></html>