<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide06/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>18. Terminology</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2><strong>18. Terminology</strong></h2>

    <p>There are dozens of terms that relate to the definition, extraction and analysis of digital evidence. As a
        front-line officer, you do not need to know all these terms. However, there are some terms that may assist you
        to in your day to day duties and increase your knowledge and effectiveness when it comes to the collection of
        digital evidence.</p>

    <p><strong>Archive Copy</strong><br />
        A copy of data placed on media suitable for long-term storage, from which subsequent working copies can be
        produced.</p>

    <p><strong>Capture</strong><br />
        The process of recording data, such as an image, video sequence, or audio stream.</p>

    <p><strong>Chain of Custody</strong><br />
        The chronological documentation of the movement, location and possession of evidence.</p>

    <p><strong>Data</strong><br />
        Information in analog or digital form that can be transmitted or processed.</p>

    <p><strong>Data Analysis</strong><br />
        The assessment of the information contained within the media.</p>

    <p><strong>Data Extraction</strong><br />
        A process that identifies and recovers information that may not be immediately apparent.</p>

    <p><strong>Digital Evidence</strong><br />
        Digital evidence is information and data of value to an investigation that is stored on, received, or
        transmitted by an electronic device in binary form.</p>

    <p><strong>Erased File Recovery</strong><br />
        The process for recovering deleted files.</p>

    <p><strong>Format</strong><br />
        The structure by which data is organised on a device.</p>

    <p><strong>Format Conversion</strong><br />
        To transfer audio and/or video from one media type to another.</p>

    <p><strong>Image Enhancement</strong><br />
        Any process intended to improve the visual appearance of an image or specific features within an image.</p>

    <p><strong>Internet Protocol (IP) Address</strong><br />
        A 32-bit binary number that uniquely identifies a host connected to the Internet or other Internet hosts for
        communication through the transfer of data packets.</p>

    <p><strong>ISP</strong><br />
        Internet Service Provider. A business that provides access to the internet.</p>

    <p><strong>JPEG</strong><br />
        A compression technique used for saving images and photographs.</p>

    <p><strong>Log File</strong><br />
        A record of actions, events and related data.</p>

    <p><strong>Media</strong><br />
        Objects on which data can be stored.</p>

    <p><strong>Metadata</strong><br />
        Data, frequently embedded within a file, that describes a file or directory, which can include the locations
        where the content is stored, dates and times, application specific information, and permissions.</p>

    <p><strong>Mobile Device</strong><br />
        A portable device that has an embedded system architecture, processing capability, on board memory, and may
        have telephony capabilities (e.g. mobile telephone, tablets and smartphones).</p>

    <p><strong>Network</strong><br />
        A configuration of independent computers, peripherals and devices capable of sharing information and resources.</p>

    <p><strong>Preview</strong><br />
        A sub-process of triage where a cursory review of items is performed to assess the need for collection and/or
        further examination.</p>

    <p><strong>Source Code</strong><br />
        The list of instructions written in programming language to construct a computer program.</p>

    <p><strong>Work Copy</strong><br />
        A copy of duplicate of a recording or data that can be used for subsequent processing and/or analysis.</p>

</body>

</html>