<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide06/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>7. Securing the evidence</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>7. Securing the evidence</h3>

    <p>You should only search for and seize digital media devices if you are lawfully entitled to do so.</p>

    <p>There are many ways that evidence relating to digital evidence may come into your possession. It may be as a
        result of a person search, vehicle or vessel search, searching baggage, a container or searching a residential
        or business premises. Irrespective of how this evidence comes into your possession you must document the scene
        and record the actions you take when you seize the digital media device or other supporting evidence.</p>

    <p>This evidence may consist of digital devices or other evidence that helps prove other crimes. This may include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Cell phones.</li>
        <li>Flash drives.</li>
        <li>Hard drives.</li>
        <li>Computers.</li>
        <li>Fax machines.</li>
        <li>Printers.</li>
        <li>Bank statements.</li>
        <li>Travel documentation.</li>
        <li>Accommodation documentation.</li>
        <li>Cash.</li>
        <li>Transporter documentation.</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Prior to the search you should:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Photograph and/or video the search area.</li>
        <li>Draw a map of the scene.</li>
        <li>If you have other officers to assist you assign each a specific role i.e. search, exhibit officer, officer
            in charge and photographer.</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>During the search you should:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Search the area systematically.</li>
        <li>Video the search.</li>
        <li>Document the location where each item is found.</li>
        <li>Bag or secure items seized clearly labelling each with a unique identification number.</li>
        <li>Create a record of all items seized.</li>
        <li>Complete chain of custody documentation.</li>
    </ul>

</body>

</html>