<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide06/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title> 17. Cyber Crime and Digital Evidence</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>17. Cyber Crime and Digital Evidence</h3>

    <p>The internet has revolutionised the way we live. As technology has developed so too has the ability for
        criminals use this technology to facilitate their illegal activities. The advent of web-based encrypted
        communication applications, the dark web, social media and the increased sophistication of mobile telephones
        have provided criminals with greater flexibility, anonymity and reach.</p>

    <p>Crime facilitated via the internet is a major issue for law enforcement agencies. These crimes occur on both the
        open web and the dark web. Hacking, fraud, drug trafficking, wildlife, the promotion of extremist views,
        trafficking, the sale of counterfeit medicines and clothing are all common place on the internet.</p>

    <p>While many criminals will only operate on the open web, more sophisticated networks are moving to the dark web.
        The use of the dark web has witnessed the trafficking of drugs, weapons, people and the facilitation of
        terrorist activities. Paedophile networks are able to share images of children within closed groups around the
        globe. Auctions of children on the dark web gives an insight into the ability for criminals to capitalize on
        changes in technology and the challenges faced by law enforcement to address this.</p>

    <p>The dark web is a collection of websites operating on an encrypted network with hidden IP addresses - all of
        which give users strong anonymity protection. Because they are not indexed by traditional search engines, you
        can only access them with special anonymity browser, such as I2P, Freenet, and the most common, The Onion
        Router (TOR) bundle.</p>

    <p>Several law enforcement agencies have run successful major undercover operations targeting Dark Web users. If
        you believe that your case involves criminal activity on the Dark Web then you should consult with the
        speciality unit within your department that addresses cyber crime, if one exists. These types of operations
        require specialist training and equipment.</p>

    <p>One area where you will find potentially valuable evidence and intelligence is through the analysis of suspects
        social media accounts. Social media offers law enforcement agencies the opportunity to gather intelligence on
        organised crime groups and individuals. The ability to map their network of friends, images of their assets and
        notifications of where they are eating at restaurants, travelling on holidays, or meeting with friends may
        provide intelligence or investigative opportunities. Examples of social media sites include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Facebook.</li>
        <li>Snapchat.</li>
        <li>Instagram.</li>
        <li>WeChat.</li>
        <li>Zalo.</li>
        <li>Signal.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Criminals have been known to post photographs of themselves with firearms, drugs or promoting terrorist agendas.
        Some have even made admissions to killing their wives online.</p>

    <p>While these platforms make it easier for criminals to commit crime, they also present opportunities for
        investigators. You can use them as possible entry points for undercover investigators and for collecting
        intelligence and potentially evidence. Never use your own account to communicate with suspects on any of these
        sites. You should create or utilise covert accounts for your communications.</p>

    <p>Should you communicate with suspects on these sites with a view to collecting evidence remember to:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Ensure that your actions are legal within your jurisdiction.</li>
        <li>Ensure that you have sought the permission from your supervisor.</li>
        <li>Always use a covert account.</li>
        <li>Screenshot the suspects profile – this can be changed by them at a later date.</li>
        <li>Screenshot any messages between you and the suspects.</li>
        <li>Record any videos or messages they send to you.</li>
        <li>Always ask for proof of possession – ask for a video with your covert name and the date.</li>
        <li>Do not share your photograph with a suspect.</li>
        <li>Do not post your photograph on your covert profile.</li>
        <li>Refrain from talking via video with the suspect.</li>
        <li>Ensure chain of custody of any evidence you collect (see chapter 10).</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Another area where you may collect valuable intelligence or digital evidence are web based communication
        applications. These systems offer end to end encryption between users which makes interception difficult.
        Examples of these types of platforms include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>WhatsApp.</li>
        <li>Viber.</li>
        <li>Line.</li>
        <li>WeChat.</li>
        <li>Telegram.</li>
        <li>Wire.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>The easiest way to collect evidence of a suspect’s criminality using these platforms (prior to arrest) is to
        connect and communicate directly with them in an undercover capacity. If you have the suspects phone in your
        possession than you can collect the digital evidence through the use of a cell phone analytical tool such as
        Cellbrite, or the physical recording of messages, photos, videos, call records or audio conversations.</p>

</body>

</html>