<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide06/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>9. Protecting Digital Assets </title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2><strong>9. Protecting Digital Assets </strong></h2>

    <p>Some mobile telephone and computer operating systems allow for the remote access to, or remote wiping of the
        contents of the device. Given that these devices may contain evidence it is crucial that you protect these
        devices from external manipulation.</p>

    <p>There are several ways that you can do this. Some require the use of readily available products while others are
        dedicated systems developed to address these issues.</p>

    <p>Some of the materials that you can use to prevent remote access to these systems include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li><strong>Aluminum foil</strong> – Mobile phones placed in a box and then wrapped in aluminum foil will not
            receive a signal. The aluminum foil is an electrical conductor and creates what is called a Faraday cage
            preventing outside access to the device</li>
        <li><strong>Faraday bags</strong> – these are purpose made military grade shielding bags that block all major
            signals including 3-4G, Bluetooth, RFID, Wi-Fi and GP</li>
        <li><strong>Stored inside a full metal safe</strong> – A full metal safe should also be able to block any
            attempts to remotely access the phone</li>
    </ul>

    <p>When using any of these methods it is always a good idea to try them out with your own phone first. Place your
        own phone inside one of the shielding devices and try to call it. If you can hear your phone ring the method is
        not blocking the signal.</p>

</body>

</html>