<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>6. Searching People</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>6. Searching People</strong></h2>

<p>You may find yourself in a situation where you must search a suspect to determine if they are in possession of devices capable of storing digital evidence, be it a smartphone, flash drive or SD card. You should always be vigilant when searching a suspect. This is to ensure your own safety, the safety of the suspect and any bystanders, and to prevent the disposal or destruction of any evidence.</p>

<p><strong>Before the search:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Inform the suspect of the reason for the search, of the powers you are using to conduct the search and of their legal rights.</li>
	<li>Ask the suspect if they are armed or in possession of anything that may harm themselves or others.</li>
	<li>Check the area around you for evidence or items that the suspect may have discarded or that they may use to harm themselves.</li>
	<li>Ask them are they in possession of a telephone, flash drive or smart card.</li>
	<li>Have another officer present during the search.</li>
	<li>Use a female officer to search female suspects (if available).</li>
	<li>If not accompanied by another officer, secure the suspect, especially if the suspect is prone to acts of violence.</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>During the search:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>If possible, conduct the search in a quiet area away from direct public view.</li>
	<li>Search the suspect systematically from head to foot, covering all areas including inside the suspect’s mouth.</li>
	<li>Remove outer items of clothing, such as hats, gloves, belts, shoes, from the suspect to search these items more thoroughly.</li>
	<li>Gently feel clothing for objects as you search.</li>
	<li>Pat pockets and ask the suspect if the pockets contain harmful objects before putting your hand in the pockets.</li>
	<li>Put any found objects aside for later examination or seizure.</li>
	<li>Search bags separately after completing the search of the suspect.</li>
	<li>When searching, avoid standing or crouching directly in front of the suspect</li>
</ul>

<p>Your colleague should watch your search to observe the suspect’s movements or if the suspect discards evidence. If you are armed, keep your firearm away from the suspect while searching.</p>

<p>Watch the suspect for any signs of aggression. Watch the suspect’s hands. If a more thorough search is required, such as a strip search or internal examination, then follow your agency’s guidelines in relation to these more intrusive searches and gender considerations.</p>

<p>Safety of yourself, your colleagues, civilians and the suspect are always your number 1 priority when conducting a search.</p>


</body></html>