<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide06/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>13. Computer Systems</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>13. Computer Systems</h3>

    <p>There are many different types of computers in use today, including desktops, laptops, towers systems,
        mainframe, touch screens and mini-computers.</p>

    <p>Computers offer law enforcement agencies the opportunity to collect digital evidence commonly found in files
        that are stored on hard drives, storage devices and media. There are four general types of files found on
        computers that may hold examples of digital evidence. These include:</p>

    <p><strong>User Created Files</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Address books.</li>
        <li>Audio/Video files.</li>
        <li>Calendars.</li>
        <li>Database files.</li>
        <li>Document or text files.</li>
        <li>Emails.</li>
        <li>Search History.</li>
        <li>Spreadsheets.</li>
        <li>Social media.</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>User Protected Files</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Compressed files.</li>
        <li>Encrypted files.</li>
        <li>Password protected files.</li>
        <li>Hidden files.</li>
        <li>Misnamed files.</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Computer Created Files</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Backup files.</li>
        <li>Configuration files.</li>
        <li>Cookies.</li>
        <li>Hidden files.</li>
        <li>History files.</li>
        <li>Log files.</li>
        <li>System files.</li>
        <li>Temporary files.</li>
        <li>Swap files.</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Other Data Areas</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Deleted files.</li>
        <li>Lost clusters.</li>
        <li>Bad clusters.</li>
        <li>Metadata.</li>
        <li>Hidden partitions.</li>
        <li>System areas.</li>
        <li>Unallocated space.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>There are many different software programs that can help you undertake the forensic analysis of computers to
        identify and extract digital evidence. You may need to be accredited to use this software if you wish to have
        the evidence presented in court.</p>

    <p>You should methodically document the steps you take during your analysis and be able to report exactly what you
        did at a later stage.</p>

    <p>Some computers are connected to networks and digital evidence can be stored in the servers of these networks.
        You may have the authority to seize these servers, but should you choose to do this make sure that you have the
        permission of your supervisor. Servers should be analysed by a qualified expert.</p>

</body>

</html>