<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>8.  Interviewing Suspects</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>8. Interviewing Suspects</strong></h2>

<p>As a front-line law enforcement officer, you may need to interview suspects who you find in possession of digital media devices. It is always better if you can electronically record these interviews but if you are unable to do this then you should take comprehensive contemporaneous notes.</p>

<p>One potential issue when dealing with digital evidence is attributing that evidence to the suspect. Proving that they were the person who owned or used a computer or mobile telephone or showing that they had knowledge of the contents of a hard drive or that they were the ones who sent an email is very important evidence.</p>

<p>When you interview a suspect, you need to abide by the rules of interviewing as expressed by your policies, procedures and laws in your country. You should only interview a suspect when you are legally entitled to do so. Some common questions that should be asked of suspects include:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Suspects full name, date of birth, address and identification number.</li>
	<li>Who owns the device?</li>
	<li>How long have you owned the device?</li>
	<li>Where did you purchase the device?</li>
	<li>What is the password/pin code/login details for the device?</li>
	<li>When was the last time you used the device?</li>
	<li>Where were you when you last used the device?</li>
	<li>What security features do you have on the device?</li>
	<li>Who else uses the device?</li>
	<li>Who else has access to the device?</li>
	<li>Are there any encrypted files on the device?</li>
	<li>What is the telephone number (if a mobile telephone)?</li>
	<li>Who is the service provider?</li>
	<li>Who is the subscriber for the account linked to the device?</li>
	<li>What do you use the device for?</li>
	<li>Clarification questions arising for material you find on the device.</li>
</ul>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>