<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide06/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>12. Hand Held Devices</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>12. Hand Held Devices</h3>

    <p>Handheld devices are portable data storage devices that provide communications, digital photography, audio and
        video recording, navigation systems, access to the internet, data storage, and personal information.</p>

    <p>The most commonly used hand-held device and the most likely data storage device you will encounter is the mobile
        telephone (cell phone). There are many different types of mobile telephones, but they will generally utilise
        one of several main operating systems. These systems include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Apple iOS.</li>
        <li>Android.</li>
        <li>Blackberry.</li>
        <li>Windows Mobile.</li>
        <li>Symbian.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>The type of operating system can have a significant impact on your ability to access the data contained on the
        device and <em><strong>it is important to identify the correct operating </strong></em><em><strong>system</strong></em>.
        Some of the security features you may encounter on the more popular operating systems include:</p>

    <p><strong>iOS</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>4 Digit PIN.</li>
        <li>6 Digit PIN.</li>
        <li>Complex – Digits Only.</li>
        <li>Complex – Alphanumeric.</li>
        <li>Touch ID (Fingerprint).</li>
        <li>Facial Recognition.</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Android</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Pattern lock.</li>
        <li>6 Digit PIN.</li>
        <li>Knock pattern.</li>
        <li>Voice.</li>
        <li>Facial Recognition.</li>
        <li>Anti-theft Security Feature.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Other types of handheld devices include Global Positioning Systems (GPS), smartwatches or fitness bands, digital
        cameras and videos, tablets and PDA’s can all contain digital evidence.</p>

    <p>It is important to understand that data or digital evidence may be lost if power is not maintained to the
        device. You should always switch the device in airplane mode (if available) and keep the device charged. Make
        sure you also seize any power chords or adaptors for the device.<sup>[5]</sup></p>

    <p>There are two basic operating systems used by mobile service providers.</p>

    <ol>
        <li>Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM).</li>
        <li>Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA).</li>
    </ol>

    <p><strong>GSM</strong> is a global standard that requires a SIM card. To identify the IMEI number of the phone
        dial *#06#. The IMEI number is a number unique to the telephone handset and can be used to identify other SIM
        cards that have been used in the telephone.</p>

    <p><strong>CDMA</strong> does not require the use of a SIM card and the subscriber’s information is stored in the
        handset. To identify the mobile equipment identity (MEID) dial *#06#.</p>

    <p>There are several commercially available forensic analytical tools that you may used to extract information from
        digital media devices or SIM cards.</p>

    <p>Mobile telephone and tablet analysis systems include Cellbrite and Micros Systemation’s XRY and both provide the
        ability to analyse handheld devices and produce forensic reports, however to be accredited to use these items
        you will need to undergo training.</p>

</body>

</html>