<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide06/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>Introduction</h3>

    <p>The use of digital media devices has grown exponentially as more and more people embrace technology and the
        convenience it provides. The ability to manage your life from a mobile device has changed the way we work,
        communicate and share our life experiences. As technology has developed so too has the way that criminals use
        this technology to facilitate their illegal activities.</p>

    <p>The advent of web-based encrypted communication applications, email, internet banking and the increased
        sophistication of mobile telephones have provided criminals with greater flexibility and security. However,
        their use and reliance of these systems also creates an opportunity for law enforcement agencies to collect
        valuable intelligence and evidence.</p>

    <p>As a frontline law enforcement officer, you may encounter suspects who are in possession of these digital media
        devices. This field guide will help you to understand where this information and evidence can be found and how
        it can be extracted, transported and stored.</p>

    <p>You should carry this field guide with you while you are on duty. It contains quick-reference tools to address
        situations you are likely to experience in the course of your duty.</p>

</body>

</html>